---
layout: post
title: Moving House
date: '2005-03-20'
author: Shawn Ferry
tags:
- yakshaving
- b.s.c.
modified_time: '2010-04-29T10:24:37.082-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-496684037280688885.post-3692392914853157316
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.shawnferry.com/2005/03/moving-house.html
---

We moved almost three weeks ago. On Monday, a gentleman from the company  
who we previously had power wash our deck called. We had reported to the  
company that the last job was horrible, the work we were billed for did  
not appear to have been performed. He wanted to come out, take a look and  
try to remedy the situation. Good news...The deck looks fabulous. The deck  
is clean, some of the stains didn't come up, but what do you expect from a  
15-20yr old deck. The siding on the house that had old stain on it is  
clean (something we were billed for but did not receive the first time).  
The only remaining step is re-staining the deck (Also contracted, but we  
understand that they wanted to wait for it to dry). Today we got most of  
the last of the stuff from the old house staged into the living room,  
loaded up the car, removed the old decrepit carpet and pad from the  
basement and threw away a bunch of junk. We also talked to some of our old  
neighbors, one of them does a carpool to meet HOV restrictions and such.  
One of the people she gave a ride to last week is looking to buy a  
townhouse in the price range we are looking to sell. We have a contact  
number, it might be possible for us to get the house sold even sooner than  
we hoped. Tonight in the new house, while looking for some curtain rod  
hangers C- found the key chain that had the keys for the locks that I cut  
off three of the storage units. There was a theory that stated that they  
may have fallen in a box that was packed into one of the storage units,  
based on the box that they were in that was not the case. I am vindicated  
in my belief that they had not been locked inside. Tonight we also finally  
got the mirror hung in the bedroom. I really like it, but it was a pain.  
It is fairly heavy and one of the screws went into a stud...unfortunately  
it was not a self drilling wood screw which made for hard going. The  
hollow wall anchor for the other side was quite simple, easy and  
effective. We also priced blinds for our bedroom. The golf course behind  
our house put in a new cart path...It appears to have opened this  
weekend...I am not overly body shy, but I don't need to wave to golfers in  
the morning. Now to finish cleaning up the garage so we can put both cars  
in it, finish fixing the legs on the old dining room table before we have  
people over for dinner on Easter Sunday, probably finish unpacking and  
arranging as much stuff as possible before that as well. Off to bed, I  
brought some cable management stuff from the old house today but I am  
exhausted and not in the mood to recable the rack tonight.  

