---
layout: post
title: Fun with Phones
date: '2005-06-21'
author: Shawn Ferry
tags:
- yakshaving
- b.s.c.
modified_time: '2010-04-29T10:24:36.957-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-496684037280688885.post-2946719230322602460
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.shawnferry.com/2005/06/fun-with-phones.html
---

<p align="left"><br />      So I finally fixed my home phone setup, only to find some entertaining <br />      behavior.<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      First I needed to get a punchdown tool, I thought I had one but all of <br />      my searching turned up nothing. I do however have two ratcheting crimp <br />      tools. I also appear to be down one set of Coaxial crimp heads.<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      Second I needed to rewire my landline at the NID to continue to provide <br />      service to my alarm and to switch line 1 to the inside wiring for line <br />      2. (This could have been done inside but I didn't want to pull the <br />      connections off the internal punchdowns)<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      My landline actually routes first to the alarm then into the house so <br />      the alarm can preempt existing calls.<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      Third I needed to punch a line from my Vonage VOIP gateway into the <br />      wiring for line 1.<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      All of that accomplished and tested I then went to demo the voice mail <br />      function of our new phone to C-. (The phone detects the stutter tone <br />      that indicates voicemail and lights an indicator on the base and <br />      handsets)<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      ------------- (Fun Starts Here) --------<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      <br />    <br /><br /></p><br />    The phone is programed with the voicemail access number. Accessing VM is <br />    as easy as pressing the VM button and selecting a line. (This should be <br />    easier the phone should know what line has a stutter tone)<br /><br />    <p align="left"><br />      Upon calling the number for the VOIP line (VM access number) my second <br />      line rings. I have a call from myself.<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      Vonage provides a call forward feature when the VOIP gateway is down, <br />      the line is busy, the line is not answered and other fairly standard <br />      call access features.<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      The defined forwarding number is the landline...sigh maybe there is an <br />      alternate VM access number or the behavior can be modified to not <br />      forward calls from it's own number.<br />    </p><br />    <br /><br /><p align="left"><br />      As I get a look from C- telling me, "Wow that is neat, you can call <br />      yourself on the phone!. Can you put yourself on speaker go in a dark <br />      room and have a confrence call?"<br />    </p><br /><br/><br />topic:{technorati}[Vonage]<br />topic:{technorati}[VOIP]<br />

