---
layout: post
title: 'CEC: Ongoing'
date: '2006-10-04'
author: Shawn Ferry
tags:
- CEC 2006
- Sun CEC
- b.s.c.
modified_time: '2010-04-29T10:20:48.083-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-496684037280688885.post-2328686926697993267
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.shawnferry.com/2006/10/cec-ongoing_9984.html
---

I plan on pushing updates to this entry as I have things to  
say that I don't want to create a new entry for.  

Thursday  
2006/10/05  
  
10:21--  

Relatively back to normal,  
on the morning calls as usual.  
  
Still sitting in bed, flex work rocks.  
  
Adding/updating missed and mangled entries.

01:54 Eastern--  
  
Home, poking about a bit  
before going to sleep...going to take probably all of the entries I  
published and edit them in Nvu to fix the formatting which now that I  
have regular, fast and reliable network connectivity are somewhat poor  
in appearance.  

Wednesday  
2006/10/4  
  
08:07--  
  
I got 10 minutes of  
working internet connection, then people started filing in for todays  
general session.  
  
Now, I am stuck again.  

07:56--  
  
Ian White's All hands  
meeting started at 7:30...It has been a somewhat rushed morning.  

06:00--  
  
Ian White has a mandatory  
all hands at 07:30.  
  
I should try to hurry over and get some of these updates posted and  
photos uploaded.  

03:00--  
  
Tried to do some photo  
organization and updates...however I fell asleep maybe half way through  
looking and I can't bring myself to spend $14.95 for 24 hours of  
internet access.

Unfortunately whom ever it  
was that had authenticated and left an open AP on the hotel network is  
no longer online.  

Tuesday  
2006/10/3  
  
19:00--  
  
Some good photo ops. and I  
think good photos.  
  
Update:
href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/18629766@N00/sets/72157594306346526/"  
rel="me">CEC2006 Photos  

18:00--  
  
Dinner/Party time...I may  
try to find a quiet spot and get some updates in.  

15:30--  
  
I think I have the photo  
of the day...it is almost perfect, maybe I will do some bad editing for  
effect.  
  
[](http://www.flickr.com/photos/18629766@N00/261252701/) title="Flickr
Photos"> src="http://static.flickr.com/102/261252701_128bb8a026.jpg"  
alt="Nerds Surrounded by Twinkies" height="500"  
width="375">  
  
14:39--  
  
The daily overview  
handout...not so functional  
  
Would be much better if it had both the session and abstract.  
  
Of course the online schedule builder could have been much easier to  
use and more helpful.  

11:50--  
  
A number of comments have  
indicated that SMS has won out in terms of  
real time feedback over AIM and Mail...  
  
But I have to say, possibly because we can't keep everyone online with  
the rogue SSID networks and a very high density of wireless users.  
  
I would be interested in seeing if we have utilization  
numbers.  

11:26--  
  
I love geek conferences.  
Unfortunately there is not enough time in the  
day to see all of the presentations that I would attend.  
  
Unfortunately I don't know if I will have enough time after I get home  
to try and listen to the recordings of the other sessions.  

09:57--  
  
I have decided that more  
comfortable chairs would be nice.  
  
Also they could be wider...or I could try to not use my laptop.  
  
Leg room is OK.  

09:26--  
  
Now there are two  
non-functional ad-hoc networks, it's like a party.  
  
Only everyone is crying.  

08:44--  
  
Ooh WiFi!...only it  
appears that DHCP isn't working again.  

08:25--  
  
Sigh, trying to upload  
some photos, but in case you were not following  
along. The WiFi has dropped again, and someone is running a non-AP  
network on the same SSID so I keep picking up that network when the  
other has problems.  

07:45--  
  
Made to breakfast with a  
bit of time to spare.  
  
Yummy; soggy eggs and potatoes  
  
The bacon and scone were good.  

Monday 2006/10/2  
  
19:14--  
  
Presentations done, they  
went well. I may well post on them seperately.  
  
Done for the day, hungry and tired. Time for food and an early  
night.  

12:00--  
  
Lunch  

11:36--  
  
x4600 is the fastest FP  
system in the world...sweet, there are  
references for that but I would need to be online.  

11:18--  
  
We need to train people to  
ask questions more clearly.  
  
Possibly we could create some training for that.  

11:13--  
  
Sorry about that, got  
online and shoved all the entries up.  
  
I feel like a dirty spammer.  

