---
layout: post
title: Baltimore 10 Miler Race Report
date: '2010-06-23'
author: Shawn Ferry
tags:
- baltimore
- boring N healthy
- race
- running
modified_time: '2010-06-23T17:48:06.508-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-496684037280688885.post-5895738583334781269
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.shawnferry.com/2010/06/baltimore-10-miler-race-report.html
---

It was an excessively long and hot day for me but I am pleased with my
results.

**The Lead Up**

Friday evening started with an ~2 hour drive to Artemas, PA for [Wicker
Man](http://www.wickermanburn.org/) a burgeoning Burning Man Regional Burn and
ended around 2am when I went to the tent to try and get a couple hours of
sleep. C- came to bed about an hour later and my alarm was set for 3:55.

Around 4:10 I climbed out of the tent, made my way to the coffee dragon for a
shot of joe, talked to a couple of guys who were sitting around and got in the
car for the 2+ hour drive to Druid Hill Park in Baltimore. I needed to get
there early for packet pickup and allow time for parking and warming up.

On the way to the race I talked to Karina and she confirmed that she would be
able to pick up my race packet which was fortunate as I needed to make an
emergency stop at a McDonald's to use the restroom, with that out of the way I
was just about ready to race.

ProTip: Sheetz MTO with jalapenos (late lunch), high fat summer sausage,
cheese, pickles and beer (late dinner) are all very tasty but they might leave
you with a bit of gas and the fear that you will need to change your shorts.

Upon arrival at the park I called Karina again and just so happened to find a
prime parking space right next to the group and fairly near the start, score!
I strapped on the [Nathan Triangle](http://www.nathansports.com/our-
products/hydrationnutrition/waist-paks/triangle) I had purchased for C- on
Friday hoped it wouldn't be a problem on the run and headed down the hill to
the start. At the start with ~35 minutes to go I realized I didn't have my
Hat, HRM strap and I hadn't put on body glide. Went up the hill back to the
car fixed my problems and headed back (Woo, Warmup!).

**The Plan**

I had various thoughts about the race. I know the course from last year and
you could call at best 1.3 miles in the middle flat, knowing that I had
debated going out for a PR thinking about trying to hit 1:30:00 knowing that I
probably shouldn't put in that kind of effort. With the sleep the night before
and heat I really wasn't feeling it and decided that a relatively easy run was
the plan and I would revisit on the course.

Karina indicated that she did something around 10:15/mi at Survivor Harbor 7
the previous weekend and that she may try to do something similar here.

**The Race**

Karina and I started off just behind the 10 minute pace marker but on the
first hill I found myself closer to 9:45 and feeling easy. Karina indicated
that she was OK for now and led the pace a bit faster until almost mile 2 when
she decided to back off on the hills and told me to go on.

Shortly after mile 2 the course was slightly different going around the south
side of Wyman Park instead of Up Art Museum Dr. although my watch (and many
around me beeping every mile) seemed to indicate that the early miles were
about .1 mile off everything seemed to line up in the end. This year also
removed the lollipop near mile 9 which was much appreciated!

Between miles 2 and 5 I found some nice people to chat with (and sweat on, I
had sweat dripping off my elbows, sorry), I was trying to maintain a nice HR
in the mid 140s to low 150s this worked early on but the hills and heat had me
in the mid to high 150s instead.

I was feeling good at mile 5 and decided to pick up the effort a little and
then maybe again at 7 miles with the plan of not walking any of the hills but
feeling perfectly fine with slowing down on 33rd and East Dr. and making time
on the downhills. On the return I also did my best to continue sticking to the
shaded parts of the course so long as that didn't have me weaving about.

I picked up again at mile 7. The push kicked my average HR to 171 and shaved
~10s/mi on the back half of the course and the no walking plan resulted in
passing a large number of people in the last two miles on the hills.

The final kick to the end over the last downhill .25 and in particular the
last 10th of a mile to the finish pegged my HR at an anaerobic 182bpm with a
spike after crossing the line to 185. Presumably this is why I was wondering
if I might vomit, fortunately I recovered quickly.

My Finish: 1:34:41 is a new PR, Last year on this course was a 1:44:24 taking
almost a minute a mile off my pace

**After Care**

The finish corral was well manned and stocked as I have come to expect from
this race. The ReGen sports recovery drink was cold and a good rich chocolate,
the watermelon was cool and refreshing, the iced towels were wonderful and the
mist blowing fan was both misty and fan like.

Outside the corral the beer selection improved this year to include Yuengling
a welcome addition to the standard light beer selection from last year. For
the more calorie conscious I also noticed MGD 64.

Among the vendors was Plow Gum (with a picture of a bull). This energy gum
starts off tasting bad and gets worse, it was impressively horrid tasting to
the point that I wondered if the bull in the logo contributed to the
formulation. Maybe it just shouldn't follow beer but I don't think I will give
it another shot.

**Post Race**

Before I got back on the road for PA Karina, John and I went to the City Cafe
for brunch where I had a wonderful blackened catfish with andouille sausage
and crawfish gravy and cheesy corn meal grits. The food and out waiter were
both excellent.

In the end do to poor planning, scheduling changes and inattention I missed
the [Potomac River Running Twilight 4
Miler](http://www.twilightfourmiler.com/). I did however wear the shirt which
was noticed before, during and after the race with questions and comment like.
Wait, isn't that today? Are you running that race tonight? and I'll see you
there!

**A Personal Note**

This weekend I also did not attend the funeral of Peter Theune, a good friend
and father figure. We had not talked in quite a while, I am very bad at
keeping in touch, but I have many fond memories of my younger adult hood
hanging out at his house with him, his son Travis and our friends talking and
shooting the shit into the wee hours of the morning. He was on my mind all
weekend and I would like to believe that he would have appreciated my decision
to spend quality time with my family doing things that I enjoy but I do feel
some regrets for choosing not to attend the funeral.

[Bib](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_bib&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[FName](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_first&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[LName](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_last&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[City](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_city&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[State](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_state&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[Div](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_division&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[Age](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_age&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[Sex](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_sex&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[ChipTime](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=convert%28p_chip_time%29&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[ClockTime](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=convert%28p_gun_time%29&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[Overall](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_place_overall&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[SexPl](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_place_sex&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[DivPl](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=p_place_division&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[![](http://results.active.com/images/icons/help5.gif)](http://results.active.com/pages/age_grade_help.jsp?rsID=94447&pubID=2)
[AgeGrade](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=convert%28p_age_grade%29&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)
|
[Pace](http://results.active.com/pages/searchform.jsp?posted_p=t&sort=convert%28pace%29&rsID=94447&lastName=Ferry&queryType=arbitrary&page=1&numPerPage=25&orgID=234639&pubID=2#hot_links)  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**1157** | **[KARINA](http://results.active.com/pages/oneResult.jsp?pID=87017459&rsID=94447&orgID=234639&pubID=2)** | **[FERRY](http://results.active.com/pages/oneResult.jsp?pID=87017459&rsID=94447&orgID=234639&pubID=2)** | BALTIMORE | MD | F3034 | 32 | F | 1:49:24 | 1:51:03 | 2150 | 1052 | 244 | 45.5% | 10:57  
**1158** | **[SHAWN](http://results.active.com/pages/oneResult.jsp?pID=87016432&rsID=94447&orgID=234639&pubID=2)** | **[FERRY](http://results.active.com/pages/oneResult.jsp?pID=87016432&rsID=94447&orgID=234639&pubID=2)** | LEESBURG | VA | M3034 | 34 | M | 1:34:41 | 1:36:21 | 1123 | 695 | 134 | 47.2%  
  
