---
layout: post
title: MCM Race Report or An Example of Poor Execution
date: '2010-11-28'
author: Shawn Ferry
tags:
- marathon
- race
- running
modified_time: '2010-11-30T10:35:31.819-08:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-496684037280688885.post-455500379674868556
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.shawnferry.com/2010/11/mcm-race-report-or-example-of-poor.html
---

Marine Corps was my target race this year after making the questionable
decision to run Baltimore (as a last overly long taper) two weeks before. I
had been hoping to cut another 30 minutes off my marathon to break 4 hours.  
  
The short story is that while I think my training was generally on target my
execution failed.  
  
I got out of the house about 10 minutes later than I had been aiming for but
still with what I expected to be plenty of time to spare. Parking was fine and
it took 5-10 minutes to park and make it to Court House Metro. Just as I was
passing through the gate I heard a train depart. I was expecting trains to be
running on rush hour schedule unfortunately the next train to Rosslyn was show
as being 15 minutes, from Rosslyn to Pentagon the trains were about 6 minutes
apart and the wait was about 4 minutes.  
  
From the Pentagon to the start is ~1.75 mi. I had a bag to check, 12 minutes
to the start and I could use a trip to the can. Instead of trying to run to
the bag check and start I decided to remain calm and make my best progress
without going crazy. I got to the bag check just before 8am and with expected
punctuality the race started. I was still about a mile from the start and
could still use the toilet and I decided to spend the time before crossing the
start instead of with my race clock running.  
  
Both sides of 110 go to the starting line and the south bound lane appeared to
have substantially fewer people. I crossed over and made my way up passing
pace groups in the NB lane down to around (hand carried) signs for the 4:15
group before the field got too crowded to move further forward, after crossing
the line the crowds remained tight. Even planning for a couple of slow miles
with the crowds and early hills I still found myself getting frustrated after
the second mile when I had trouble making good lines and the throngs of people
seemed to be composed mainly of interlocking waves intent on randomly and
dramatically changing pace.  
  
Mile 5 was almost on pace, Mile 6 with the last real climb was about the pace
I expected. Mile 7, a descent, was faster than planned while Mile 8 was again
crowded, 9 and 10 were a few seconds behind and ahead respectively but having
run the Army 10 Miler helped a bit here with lane selection around
construction near the Kennedy Center. Mile 12/13 slowed as the roads narrowed
getting onto Hains Point. I also paused for ~15s to stretch as my left glute
and hamstring were starting to get tight.  
I made the half at 2:04 and realized that given how I was feeling, the crowds
etc that there was no way I was going to take 5 minutes off my half marathon
PR to make a sub 4 finish. Around Mile 19 I gave up on a big improvement on my
PR and decided I was just going to run it in at a relatively easy 10min or so
pace thinking that if I could get space and get moving I could hopefully take
off a minute or two.  
Climbing onto the 14th street bridge and back into the wind I stopped to
stretch a couple more times around 20.5 with wide roads I died a little inside
and just decided that finishing was generally the new goal. I did eventually
finish in 4:47:38, it was clearly not the result I was hoping for but I
learned from this race.  
  
Immediately post race the finish chute was very crowded and slow but getting
the medals and water went smoothly and fairly quickly. However, trying to get
out to the finish festival the crowd was very slow so I stopped and stretched
a bit, took stock drank a bit more water and decided to move on. At this point
there were further delays and on standing back up but not being able to really
move around my calves and hamstrings started to cramp. I walked myself over to
the medical tent to get checked out the staff was quite helpful and I quickly
got a tylenol and some ice bags to chill my legs. Twenty or thirty minutes
later I got up and headed for baggage check collected my things and walked two
mostly uphill miles to my car.  
  
**  
Take Aways **  

  * I had water at every aid. I didn't have any real stomach issues but I was dehydrated at the end. 
  * I ran with a hydration pack but drank only half of what I was carrying. I need to go back to wearing a second watch with an interval timer to remind me to drink. 
  * I was worried about being cold at the start so I didn't want to allow too much extra time, instead I was late (Crossed the line at 8:13). 
  * The large races are fun but I don't necessarily like crowds and the crowded course was frustrating. It was a good experience but I may not run it again. 
  * Waiting in line 30s for a port-a-jon before crossing the start was making the best of a bad situation. Already being late two more minutes here didn't make that much more of a difference in the crowd density on the road, probably. 

After I got home we had our traditional halloween gathering with a nice fire
and chili, this years turn out was not as good as previous years it seems that
cool weather and a Sunday are not the most conducive for halloween parties or
trick or treat volume.

