---
layout: post
title: Gunpowder 50k
date: '2011-07-27'
author: Shawn Ferry
tags:
- ultra
- fatass
- race
- running
modified_time: '2011-07-27T14:16:35.097-07:00'
blogger_id: tag:blogger.com,1999:blog-496684037280688885.post-5921474541819639750
blogger_orig_url: http://blog.shawnferry.com/2011/07/gunpowder-50k.html
---

The Gunpowder 50K was the inaugural event with this course and name in
Gunpowder Falls State Park.

An out and back course starting at the [Gunpowder
Lodge](http://thegunpowderlodge.com/) running through Gunpowder State Park the
race description "The Gunpowder trail provides various challenges ranging from
rocky terrain, continuous climbs and questionable blazes." I only had problems
at the turn around where I couldn't see the aid station and about 6 miles from
the finish where I was lined up just right to not be able to see the next
blaze or bit of marking tape.

![I took a few photos during the run
](http://photos.shawnferry.com/Running/gunpowder50k-2010/SPF20101120IMG4716/1102372622_VU6sQ-M.jpg)

[A few photos from the
course](http://photos.shawnferry.com/Running/gunpowder50k-2010/14782950_mQyMz
"A few photos from the course" )

It was an attractive course but apparently the leaves just fell in recent rain
covering the otherwise very visible trail.

The race went fairly well for me. I finished 50 minutes faster than my last
50k but started having some discomfort with my left knee around mile 12. On
the return I ran for a while chatting with some mountain bikers thinking that
we must be crazy to be running 30+ miles. It felt to me like it was turning
into a race for last and for the first time ever in a long race I actually
tried to race instead of finish or just better my previous results. I pushed
to get back over the hills to the rock scrambles and corners to stay out of
sight but it didn't work.

As it turns out I was feeling generally fine except for the nagging pain in my
knee which turned into an inability to effectively run downhill. With maybe
six miles to go I had difficulty finding the course and stopped for a minute
looking for blazes while doing that my ITB tightened up. I started hobbling to
the end and on the way my ITB loosened allowing me to run on and off but never
got back to the point where I was running comfortably. At the 4ish mile aid
station I stopped to write in my time and the delay had me hobbling out the
other side on a horse trail. Steve pulled up and asked if I was okay and I
jokingly allowed with a grin that I might drop at the next aid station (the
finish). At 2-3 miles he was waiting at the last road crossing to pull up the
signs asking if I needed anything (maybe I looked really bad the last time he
saw me?).

With about 2 miles left I realized I was close to shaving an hour off my last
50k. Fortunately the last bits were mostly flat. Unfortunately this is also
where I tripped on a root onto a nice truly soft bit of trail, I rolled
through the fall and kept running but noticed that I needed to finish the last
however long in 30s and I still couldn't see the finish. I backed off to a
hard but runnable (for some values of running) pace. I got to the line DFL to
cheers from finished runners at the outside tables and the crowd still at the
line.

This was the first time I really noticed any ITB tightness/pain and I
attribute it to the heavy racing/training schedule at the end of the year. I'm
still recovering a bit with a foam roller stretches and massage and think I am
managing the recovery nicely so far.

(On Slacking, this was written December 27th 2010, not sure why I never hit
publish. Good job on that)

